there was a famine in the land besides
the first famine that was in the days of
Abraham and Isaac went to Abimelech king
of the Philistines in Kira then the Lord
appeared to him do not go down to Egypt
live in the land of which I shall tell
you dwell in this land and I will be
with you and bless you for to you and
your descendants I give all these lands
and I will perform the oath which I
swore to Abraham your father and I will
make your descendants multiply as the
stars of heaven I will give to your
descendants all these lands and in your
seed all the nations of the earth shall
be blessed because Abraham obeyed my
voice and kept my charge my commandments
my statutes and my laws
so Isaac dwelt in Gera and the men of
the place asked about his wife and he
said she is my sister for he was afraid
to say she is my wife because he thought
lest the men of the place kill me for
Rebecca because she is beautiful to
behold now it came to pass when he had
been there a long time
that Abimelech king of the Philistines
looked through a window and saw and
there was Isaac showing endearment
to Rebecca his wife then eliminate cold
Isaac and said quite obviously she is
your wife
so how could you say she is my sister
because I said lest I die on account of
her what is this you have done to us one
of the people might soon have lain with
your wife and you would have brought
guilt tell us so abemolik charged all
his people
he who touches this man or his wife
shall surely be put to death then Isaac
sowed in that land and reaped in the
same year a hundredfold and the Lord
blessed him the man began to prosper and
continued prospering until he became
very prosperous for he had possessions
of flocks and possessions of herds and a
great number of servants so the
Philistines NVIDIA now the Philistines
had stopped up all the wells which his
father's servants had dug in the days of
Abraham his father and they had filled
them with earth and Abimelech said to
Isaac go away from us for you are much
mightier than we then Isaac departed
from there and pitched his tent in the
Valley of Elah
and dwelt there and Isaac died again the
wells of water which they had dug in the
days of Abraham his father for the
Philistines had stopped them up after
the death of Abraham he called them by
the names which his father had called
them
also Isaac's servants dug in the valley
and found a well of running water there
but the herdsmen of Gera quarreled with
Isaac's herdsmen the water is ours so he
called the name of the well he sick
because they quarrelled with him then
they dug another well and they quarreled
over that one also
so he called its name Sydnor and he
moved from there and dug another well
and they did not quarrel over it so he
called its name thrilled because he said
for now the Lord has made room for us
and we shall be fruitful in the land
then he went up from there to Beersheba
and the Lord appeared to him the same
night and said I am the God of your
father Abraham do not fear for I am with
you I will bless you and multiply your
descendants for my servant Abraham's
sake so he built an altar there and call
on the name of the Lord and he pitched
his tent there and there Isaac seven
stagger well then abemolik came up from
gira
with a huzzah one of his friends and
fico the commander of his army and Isaac
said to them why have you come to me
since you hate me and have sent me away
from you we have certainly seen that the
Lord is with you
so we said let there now be an oath
between us between you and us and let us
make a covenant with you that you will
do us no harm
since we have not touched you and since
we have done nothing to you but good and
have sent you away in peace you are now
the blessed of the Lord so he made them
a feast and they ate and drank
then they arose early in the morning and
swore an oath with one another and Isaac
sent them away and they departed from
him in peace became to pass the same day
that Isaac's servants came and told him
about the well which they had done we
have found water so he called it sheba
therefore the name of the city is
Beersheba to this day when Esau was 40
years old he took his wives Judith
the daughter of B ehre the hittite and
Bassem earth the daughter of elon the
hittite and they were a grief of mine to
Isaac and Rebekah
you